+++
title = "Nonlinear modeling for analyzing data from multiple harvest crops"
date = "2018-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["Sari B.", "**Olivoto T.**", "Diel M.", "Krysczun D.", "Lucio A.", "Savian T."]
publication = "In: **Agronomy Journal**, 110(6):2331--2342, https://doi.org/10.2134/agronj2018.05.0307, https://dl.sciencesocieties.org/publications/aj/abstracts/0/0/agronj2018.05.0307 http://doi.wiley.com/10.2134/agronj2018.05.0307"
abstract = "Nonlinear growth models have been widely used for analyzing production curves with a sigmoidal pattern; however, all benefits that these models provide are not being fully exploited. Our aim here is to provide a step‐by‐step guide on how to choose a nonlinear model with parameters close to being unbiased, and to show how to estimate and interpret the critical points of a model aimed at determining the precocity and concentration of the production. Data on two uniformity trials conducted with eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) was used for this purpose. The Brody, Gompertz, logistic, and von Bertalanffy models were fitted to predict the number and fresh mass of fruits per plant. The model with lower nonlinearity measures and lower bias of the parameter estimates was selected. All the tested models presented satisfactory goodness‐of‐fit measures, but they differed regarding nonlinearity measures. The logistic model was selected because it had lower intrinsic and parametric nonlinearity and lower bias in parameter estimates. The inflection point and maximum acceleration/deceleration points of this model provide detailed pieces of information of the production through the productive cycle. Finally, using the logistic model as an example, we demonstrate that lower values of $\\beta$2 are related to an earlier maximum production rate, and higher values of $\\beta$3 are related to an earlier production that is concentrated in fewer days. The nonlinearity measures were important for the model selection. Thus, it is strongly recommended that nonlinearity is estimated and used to select nonlinear models in future studies."
abstract_short = ""
tags = ["growth models", "nonlinear models", "tomato"]
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
